well howdy there Internet people its
bubble again so today we're going to
answer a question that I've been getting
asked a lot for the last couple of
months it's a question I don't have an
answer to you know people are asking how
do you cope what's the best method of
coping how do I deal with all of this
that's going around and truthfully I
don't know mi I tend to just throw
myself into the grinder and that's I'm
self-aware enough to know that that is
probably not good advice that's from a
mental health standpoint that's probably
not the right move so I reached out to
somebody named Jody strong and we're
going to get a view from somebody who
actually understands this stuff so let's
listen to Jody stomps well howdy there
internet people it's Bo again so today
we're going to be talking with Jody
strong she's a therapist and
practitioner of mindfulness and we're
about to find out what that means so
Jody could you start us off with telling
us a little bit about what it is you do
sure and first I just want to thank you
so much for having me on here I feel
just so grateful and I really appreciate
the opportunity to give voice to
whatever comes out here today yeah so as
far as how I get to meet people in this
world through my job is it started out
with marriage and family therapy that's
what I went to graduate school for and I
learned what most of us learn in those
programs which is a lot of theory I was
really fortunate with the school that I
went to that we had a lot of live
practice before we became licensed and
kind of paralleling my experience with
my education was this whole other
education of practicing yoga and
like and he was straddling this place of
thinking that was for other people and a
little granola crunchy and kind of
wishing I was in that world but also
feeling really drawn to to the
underlying themes and messages in yoga
and then when I met my partner that I'm
with now I mean the value of meditation
practice he was a meditation
practitioner and I saw how much that
supported our relationship and that
meditation seemed once again like
something that was for these other
people in my mind that I could kind of
wish that I might one day be but it
didn't really resonate through me at
that time or it felt so far away and I
think through just being together with
him and seeing that here's this regular
person I'm in relationship with bringing
in this practice it became much more
accessible to me and I I started to
practice with a meditation group weekly
and start learning some Buddhist
teachings and receiving those teachings
learning from them and then there's this
boom of secular mindfulness that seemed
to happen over the past few years that
made it so accessible to so many more
people and I found that intriguing and I
just kept following my curiosity there
and I found that as I had my own
mindfulness practice and really was
doing my own inner work I just saw that
there was just no way I could work with
people and really be with people's inner
world without taking full responsibility
and really being honest about my own
inner world I would eventually kind of
hit this place if I wasn't doing my own
practice where I couldn't fully be of
service and just go to the darkest and
deepest places with others so that's a
huge motivation to me and I really don't
see it as two separate things
really see just the the connectedness
between my own personal work and the
work I do with other individuals but
also the work that is there to be done
in the world okay okay so how would this
apply and how would this help when we
are talking about people today with
everything that's going on and you can
pick your topic all of the different
stuff that's that's occurring in the
United States in the world we're all
going through a lot of just a changes
and stressors things that that are out
of the norm so they're causing stress
even if it's not a huge amount of stress
still what I'm wondering is if there is
anything that you can share that can
help people adjust to all the changes
that are coming along because it's a
question we get a lot sure I mean this
is such a huge topic and especially you
know the week that you and I are doing
this it's where everything is really
just coming to a head even more and I
think it has been for a long time but
just around the relationship with race
in our country
and people's responses to that and real
pain and grief and rage the anticipation
and anxiety that we're all holding in
our own way around stay at home waters
and as those soften and where people
stand on that with covet 19 so yeah I
have to say just for myself as we're
talking about this I'm just wanting to
pause because I know here for me and
it's a lot I mean it's a lot and I'm
feeling that if I'm being completely
transparent and honest I had spent the
last few weeks in a really tender place
of just being with my own grief and
watching how
how quickly that can trigger reactivity
when I'm not paying attention and really
taking the time to pause and look inward
so I think on a more practical level
throat for people listening I just want
to pause so I can get clear on this
there's it's really easy right now I
think for so many of us and I'm
including myself to fall into a place of
hopelessness helplessness letting fear
either paralyze us or kind of catapult
us into reactivity you know so either
were acting in which can be negative
self-talk self aggression comparison to
others standards that we create striving
feeling like we're not doing enough or
we can project it outward and really
other people and judge and blame and
point fingers and and those are such
easy places to spin out whether it's
happening in our in an inward way or an
outward way and for so many of us it
kind of is a ping-pong match back and
forth when we get caught in those places
so first just acknowledging the
collective experience of this that I've
been seen again in myself and in the
world around and first I think it can be
incredibly hopeful when we can remember
that there is so much value in finding
the courage to just stop and be with our
own experience I think we're taught
we're kind of conditioned as a culture
to run away from
discomfort to find a way to numb out
from it or view it as a big problem that
we need to solve and it's such a relief
it's been such a relief to me to
recognize that these feelings that we
have in these really big moments are
often the healthiest response we could
be having to a collective trauma and
that anger is a natural response when
there's a violation of a boundary that
anxiety is such a human response to
feeling threatened and so there's a
compassion piece here when we can just
sit and even right now as you're
listening it might be nice for us
altogether to just close our eyes even
if this feels horribly foreign to you um
just knowing that maybe for you closing
your eyes is a thing of courage to just
pause and take a breath and to give
ourselves permission to feel into what's
arising in the physical body different
phrasing but I made it sounds like
you're kind of saying embrace the suck I
mean like but you're gonna have to sit
with it this this is you know you you
need to acknowledge the emotions things
that you're feeling at the moment I
think there's great benefit in that and
I also want to just acknowledge with
that that for some of us that you know
oh this is such a big piece of it and
sometimes I can get a little scattered
and trying to name it but we all come to
this world from coming from different
circumstances and so there are some of
us who have received a foundation for
how to meet embracing the suck and
there's many of us who
actually the best thing that we could
have done in our childhood was to just
survive and it wasn't the time to
embrace the suck you know it was the
time to just survive and so this is
really might be very scary and very new
for many people and for some of us it
might be something that we're practicing
regularly but no matter where it is that
you find yourself falling in that space
it it really is as simple as beginning
to turn towards and yes if you want to
call it embracing the stuff that's fine
languaging for it but I think that the
benefit of that and where it can really
turn a corner is that when only I find
only when I've been able to learn how to
sit with these places in myself and I do
I have access to then be able to
tolerate it more in the world around and
then when I can then start to tolerate
it more in the world around me action
becomes available that I didn't even
know as possible before and that is
really empowering whether that action is
simply learning how to tolerate and
listen to somebody's perspective that
five years ago I would have argued with
them or gotten caught and kind of an ego
speaks of them now there's a place that
can just hold space and not be a passive
recipient of violence or negativity or
any of that it's not about that it's
about really being able to deeply listen
to see the person fully that's in front
of me and then from that place knowing
when there's an opportunity to plant a
seed or to say something that might
allow more spaciousness in the
conversation and so whatever form it's
taking right it's it's a way for us as
we turn to our own experience using that
trusting that our own inner work is what
will then ripple out and make an impact
in the world and I
I'm not incredibly hopeful specific
things that people can do to help
alleviate the the stress and the tension
and the anxiety that's coming along all
of these changes and certain the ones
that will come next week because it yeah
yeah um let me just pause there for a
moment you know I think the first thing
is to just ask if there's any ways that
you can be taking care of yourself right
now to really make space to do that and
I don't mean the self-care like you know
this isn't about what you might find on
an Instagram page about here's 10 things
for self-care and not not that kind of
self-care that's fine but that's not
what I'm talking about this is more of a
is there a need for more rest you know
some people right now that I've worked
with have shared that sleep has been
really hard because there's the mind is
running so much and there's so much fear
or overwhelm whatever it is that it's
just really hard to sleep at night and
along with this comes a pressure from
either losing a job and feeling like you
need to make ends meet or having a job
that's ramped up right now and a fear
that if you don't keep up with it you're
going to lose your job wherever the
anxiety is coming to them let's just say
for example maybe you're having a
difficult time sleeping from all of this
I have found it really useful in those
moments when I've had trouble sleeping
to lay in bed and just have a kind voice
that can say eventually sleep will
happen eventually sleep will happen and
I can rest well while I'm not sleeping
and to trust that rest is very
restorative even if sleep isn't
happening so I'd say that's what one
thing people can do is just find little
ways that's just one example to bring
real tenderness
to themselves right now in compassion
practices and that can just be as simple
as noticing how do you talk to yourself
you know when you're walking around your
day and in your day and maybe you have a
human moment and you make a mistake
what's the dialogue how do you talk to
yourself in that moment and it was
something my teacher asked me that it's
funny languaging but it really changed
the way that I've looked at life is you
know who who is that you know who who's
that voice like is that a familiar voice
is where did that come from what part of
me is that you know where's that credit
coming from things like this just begin
to give us a little bit of space to take
that step backwards and be able to see
to have a little bit of spaciousness
between it's changing the languaging I'm
saying like I'm so hard on myself - ha
there's a part of me that can be really
critical and how can I take care of
myself when that part of me begins to
arise feeling that they can't act
they can't affect the world they can't
make things better is there any any
advice on how to deal with those
emotions specifically with the kind of
paralysis is that what you're asking
that can come with how overwhelming if
this can all be right now yeah yeah
that's a good way to describe it yeah
yeah um it might sound a little bit like
a broken record
but that's on purpose just not um it
really does start and it really is
enough to determine it's like it Tara
Brock is a teacher that that is pretty
known in the mindfulness world she
refers to this is doing a u-turn
right so it's like when we catch
ourselves looking out in the world and
thinking like oh my gosh this is so much
what can I do this is so overwhelming
and you feel paralyzed by that it's such
a great opportunity to like to just do a
little u-turn and turn your attention
again inward and what this allows for is
we can actually meet ourselves in this
moment exactly as we are so huh
I'm feeling really paralyzed right now
you know what is it that's needed what's
needed when the sense of paralysis is
here and simply giving yourself a few
moments to take deep breaths right when
we get caught in our head it's like if
you could see me right now I'm going to
verbalize this it's like I'm taking my
hand and like moving it up to my head
it's like so we spend so much time in
our head in our mind and looping around
what can I do how can I do this
differently oh no I feel really
paralyzed and hopeless and I'm not
making a big enough impact in the world
and so much change needs to happen and
Here I am just sitting here doing
nothing but we can be really in our head
it's so valuable to just almost like
imagine you're taking an elevator from
your head down your face down your
throat into your body and just notice
the impact this is having on your body
in this moment just go down into the
body that's it's a really grounding
practice to have it roots you back down
and it starts to inform us so that we're
not just obeying these thoughts that are
chattering at us in our mind but it
allows us to access more of our whole
experience and we can take care of
ourselves there and through that I
promise you that how you show up in the
world as you meet yourself in this way
of just turning towards yourself I
promise you it will make a huge impact
on how you show up in the world around
you
so this sounds a lot you know we have we
got a pretty
very group of people hear the sounds to
me like here now is that it's the same
premise okay yeah yeah there's the be
here now there's you know my teacher has
a wonderful book called relational
mindfulness and I think it was it's been
the single most useful resource to me in
my life to giving practical hands-on
support to how to meet ourselves in
difficult times
her name is Deborah Eden tall and she
also has a lot of free resources and
support for this right now available
through her website which is Deborah
Ethan told comm but I mean there's so
there's so many spaces out there it's
actually a really wonderful thing that's
coming out of this time right now and
that that's actually reminding me and if
it's if it's okay with you both if I say
a little something if I elaborate on
that is that okay or did you have
another direction you wanted to go in
there's a teacher named Joanna Macy I
was listening to an interview with her
and she's in her 90s now and she I
thought she had the most fascinating
perspective on what's arising in the
world and she she gave the definition of
apocalypse
and she was saying often when we think
of the apocalypse we just think of a
doomsday and just the end of the world
and everything falling apart and she
said that when she looked up the
definition what she found is that it's
it also means a revelation and an
unveiling that there's an unveiling
there's a veil that's lifting up and we
have this ability to see things now that
we didn't have access the scene before
that there are things being exposed that
we can really see and yes it can be
shocking right and there's time that we
need to integrate and let that shock be
there and let our whatever experience
around that be
but also to acknowledge the importance
of having the blinders taken off of
having the veil lifted so that we can
actually see clearly what's here because
when we can see clearly what's here we
can then meet what's here in a way that
can have an impact and I found that to
be an awesome you from somebody who has
a lot of life experience and a lot of
wisdom so yeah I think in holding kind
of the heaviness in the darkness and the
weight and the challenge at this time
it's so important to value the
importance of the darkness you know that
you know part of what even my teacher
says is that it's through darkness where
life is really born and where it comes
out of and that this is also a really
fertile time as challenging as it is for
the world for the collective yeah I
thought so blew me away it's like a
waking up looking at all of this stuff
happening and this
so it's don't lose hope is basically I
mean well they I mean that's you go
without saying but I mean that that kind
of seems as though be here now be aware
of all of the stuff I'm trying to sum
all of this up and it's to be here now
be aware of what's going on don't lose
hope because things are gonna get better
is that but but embrace what it is that
you're feeling
yes yeah if you're if feeling a loss of
hope if there's a part of you that feels
completely hopeless right now I don't
know that it would be helpful you know
for me to say don't lose hope because
it's it's that's not gonna that's not
gonna really meet you where you are if
really if that's where there's a part of
you that's losing hope really turning
towards that part
finding a way to just meet that part and
no that's not all of who we are that's
just a part of who we are and so it's
just fine there's no problem with that
it's not a problem to feel hopeless in
one moment and it will change so I heard
that some of the people in your field
like they encourage community service
events kind of can you some of the
rationale behind that if that is
something that you agree with can you
say more when you say community service
events can you clarify what you're
speaking about basically did they'll
encourage people to get involved in
volunteer activities anything along
those lines and I've heard of a couple
of different people doing it different
ways I don't know if it's I don't know
if it's common or I don't know if this
is just a coincidence that the few that
I'm aware of do this yeah you know um
first of all community service is such a
it to me it's it's it serves all of us
you know it yes it directly serves the
community we're showing up for it but it
also has an impact on the person who's
showing up for the service and it it it
just has this huge ripple effect and I I
know that uh it's such an important
thing for me my dear friend Lauren and I
started about four years ago actually
something called living practice and
it's where we get our some people in our
community whoever's interested we send
out an email and we go out and do
service here in where we live in
California
and we do various acts of service from
serving you know people who experience
homelessness to planting trees to go in
and helping to start a garden for a
local elementary school and yeah
absolutely I mean what's beautiful about
that and I think at this time especially
when we can feel so isolated and missing
that face-to-face connection there's
something so valuable about finding ways
to plug into community so yes there's a
lot of value in that and I I highly
recommend exploring that if that's
something you have it done before
because community is something that just
I think at this time we're we're on our
computer screens were and I'm not just
talking about the time of code that I'm
talking about this time in our lives
we're connecting over social media any
type of computer media we're spending
more time isolated and less in community
many of us at least that's been my
experience here in Los Angeles that we
can sometimes forget the amazing power
and energy that comes from connecting
with community and also there's such an
opportunity to put a face to people that
we might think when we're isolated alone
are so different from us putting a face
to it brings us a humanity in and it
allows us to erase that veil of
separation that we can get so caught in
believing that I'm me and you're you and
it invites us into a more weak
consciousness experience and and but
it's my personal belief that there is
incredible power to meeting the world
right now when we meet it from that
place of remembering the we instead of
the I versus you yeah yeah I found that
really interesting because most of most
of the people that I'm aware of that
encourage the
be the inward-looking they also do this
thing where they they they push for the
the people that they're working with to
go out and you know get involved in the
community and do all of this stuff I
always found it a unique it's not a
contradiction because it makes complete
sense when you think about it but on the
surface it kind of does it when you
first glance at it very interesting this
is a question I ask pretty much
everybody who comes on the show and this
is if you have one piece of advice
listen to this too on how they
personally could help change the world
make their community better whatever is
something they could do what would it be
hmm gosh that's a huge question and they
feel a lot of vulnerability and myself
arise because it feels like a big
responsibility to provide an answer to
it no pressure I mean the reality is I
would say to look and work because
there's not I don't think that I think
if you're really looking into your own
experience you'll find something that
moves you you know it could be as simple
as a family member who has a different
view on something than you do just being
able to reach out and connect with them
not even I'm not I'm not suggesting that
you connect with them about the topic
that you have a challenge around but but
just the simply bridge a connection to -
again it's putting that face and it's
making more human and it could also be
as simple as when an emotion that's
challenging rises up inside of you
having the courage and the patience and
the willingness to explore it to
investigate to be
yourself just a little longer then you
may want to or have previously chosen to
I really have experienced in my own life
and believe with my whole body my whole
heart that that is the stepping stones
to being able to create real change in
the world is trusting that we we start
with looking at our own responses to
things okay all right so parting shot is
there anything you want to talk about
anything you want to plug anything
definitely look more into on their own
anything like that I mean I suggested
some some resources and I definitely
think those are great something right
now that I do want to speak to there is
a woman named Ruth king who wrote a book
called mindful of race and she is just
amazing and so if that's if right now
some of what's coming up in the world
around race is really touching you in
any way that book and in her work is an
amazing amazing resource so I would just
offer that to anybody who that's up for
right now it's definitely given people a
lot to process it's kind of a change of
pace the channels normally like
extremely political and you know but it
with everybody asking hey maybe we
should slow down it seemed like a good
idea to maybe slow down a little bit so
yeah I guess we're gonna wrap it up
unless you have anything else that's
everything thank you so much but it was
really just um I was really touched to
be invited on thank you we enjoyed it
and I'm sure those people are gonna
benefit for
all right so all right everybody that's
it for the show it's just a thought you
all have a good night